# 1. What are the essential ingredients of a symmetric cipher?
**Plaintext:** This is the original intelligible message or data that is fed into the algorithm as input.

**Encryption algorithm:** The encryption algorithm performs various substitutions and transformations on the plaintext.

**Secret key:** The secret key is also input to the algorithm. The key is a value independent of the plaintext and of the algorithm. The algorithm will produce a different output depending on the specific key being used at the time. The exact 
substitutions and transformations performed by the algorithm depend on the key.

**Ciphertext:** This is the scrambled message produced as output. It depends on the plaintext and the secret key. For a
given message, two different keys will produce two different Ciphertext. The Ciphertext is an apparently random stream of 
data and, as it stands, is unintelligible.

**Decryption algorithm:** This is essentially the encryption algorithm run in reverse. It takes the ciphertext and the secret 
key and produces the original plaintext.

# 2. What are the two basic functions used in encryption algorithm?
**Substitution:** in which  each element in the plaintext (bit, letter, group of bits or letters) is mapped into another element.

**Transposition:** in which elements in the plaintext are rearranged.

# 3, How many keys are required for two people to communicate via a cipher?
- single key for symmetric encryption.
- two key for asymmetric encryption.

# 4, What is the difference between a block cipher and a stream cipher?
A **block cipher** processes the input one block of elements at a time, producing an output block for each input block. A **stream cipher** processes the input elements continuously, producing output one element at a time, as it goes long.

# 5. What are two general approaches to attacking a cipher?
**Cryptanalysis:** Cryptanalytic attacks rely on the nature of the algorithm plus perhaps some knowledge of the general 
characteristics of the plaintext or even some sample plaintext-ciphertext pairs, This type of attack exploits the characteristics of the algorithm to attempt to deduce a specific plaintext or to deduce the key being used.

**Brute-force attack:** The attacker tries every possible key on a piece of Ciphertext until an intelligible translation into
plaintext is obtained. On average, half of all possible keys must be tried to achieve success.

# 6. List and briefly define types of cryptanalytic attacks based on what is known to the attack.
1. Ciphertext Only
- Encryption algorithm 
- Ciphertext 

2. Known Plaintext
- Encryption algorithm 
- Ciphertext 
- One or more plaintext-ciphertext pairs formed with secret key

3. Chosen Plaintext 
- Encryption algorithm 
- Ciphertext 
- Plaintext message chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding Ciphertext generated with the secret key.

4. Chosen Ciphertext 
- Encryption algorithm 
- Ciphertext 
- Ciphertext Chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding decryptd plaintext generated with the secret key.

5. Chosen Text
- Encryption algorithm 
- Ciphertext 
- Plaintext message chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding Ciphertext generated with the secret key.
- Ciphertext Chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding decryptd plaintext generated with the secret key.

# 7. What is the difference between an unconditionlly secure cipher and a computationally secure cipher?
1. An encryption scheme is **unconditionally secure** if the ciphertext generated by the scheme does not contain enough 
information to determine uniquely the corresponding plaintext, no matter how much ciphertext is avaliable.
2. An encryption scheme is said to be computationally secure if either of the following two criteria are met.
- The cost of breaking the cipher exceeds the value of the encrypted information.
- The time required to break the cipher exceeds the useful lifetime of the information.

# 8. Briefly define the Caesar cipher.
1. The Caesar cipher involves replacing each letter of the alphabet with the letter standing three places futher down the alphabet.
2. General Caesar algorithm is:
C = E(k, p) = (p+k) mod 26

# 9. Briefly define the monoalphabetic cipher.
Any permutation of the 26 alphabetic characters, there are 26! possible keys.

# 10. Briefly define the Playfair cipher.
