# 1.List ways in which secret keys can be distributed to two communicating parties.
1. A can select a key and physically deliver it to B.
2. A third party can select the key and physically deliver it to A and B.
3. If A and B have previously and recently used a key, one party can transmit the new key to the other, encrypted using the old key.
4. If A and B each has an encrcypted connection to a third party C, C can deliver a key on the encrypted links to A and B.

# 2. What is the difference between a session key and a master key?
1. A temporary **session key** that will last for the duration of a logical connection, such as a TCP connection.
2. A and B each share a long-lasting **master key** with a third party that is involved in providing the session key.

# 3. What is a key distribution center?
A **key distribution center (KDC)** generates and distributes session keys.

# 4. What are two different uses of public-key cryptography releated to key distribution?
**Simple Secret Key Distribution**
1. A generate a public/private key pair and transmits a message to B consisting of A's public key and an identifier of A.
2. B generates a secret key, and transmits it to A, which is encrypted with A's public key.
3. A computes to recover the secret key. Because only A can decrypt the message, only A and B will know the identity of secret key.
4. A discards it's key pair and B discards A's public key.

**Secret Key Distribution with Confidentiality and Authentication**
1. A uses B's public to encrypt a message to B containing an identifier of A and a nonce (N1), which is used to identify this transaction uniquely.
2. B sends a message to A encrypted with A's public key and containing A's nonce (N1) as well as a new nonce generated by B(N2). Because only B could 
have decrypted message (1), the presence of N1 in message (2) assures A that the correspondent is B.
3. A returns N2, encrypted using B's public key, to assure B that its correspondent is A.
4. A select a secret key and sends encrypted message to B. Encryption of this message with B's public key ensures that only B can read it; encryption with A's private key ensures that only A could have sent it.
5. B computes to recover the secret key.

# 5. List four general categories of schemes for the distribution of public key.
1. Public announcement.
2. Publicly avaliable dircetory.
3. Public-key authority.
4. Public-key certificates.

# 6. What are the essential ingredients of a public-key directory?
1. The authority maintains a directory with a {name, public key} entry for each participant.
2. Each participant registers a public key with the directory authority. Registration would have to be in person or by some form of secure authenticated communication.
3. A participant may replace the existing key with a new one at any time, either because of the desire to replace a public key that has already been used for a larger amount of data, or because the corresponding private key has been compromised in some way.
4. Participants could also access the dircetory electronically. For this purpose, secure, authenticated communication from the authority to the participant is mandatory. 

# 7. What is a public-key certificate?
In essence, a certificate consists of a public key, an indentifier of the key owner, and the whole block signed by a trusted third party.

# 8. What are the requirements for the use of a public-key certificate scheme?
1. Any participant can read a certificate to determine the name and public key of the certificate's owner.
2. Any participant can verify that the certificate originated from the certificate authority and is not counterfeit.
3. Only the certificate authority can create and update cerrtificates.

# 9. What is the purpose of the X.509 standard?
Formatting public-key certificates.

# 10. What is a chain of certificates?

# 11. How is an X.509 certificate revoked?
